Status:  
Very much disagree; this work is Aristotelean idealism disguised with my pathetic attempt to reconcile it as materialism. The work is alos unfinished.

Title:  
Objects and Processes

Text:  

Introduction

A Rudimentary Analysis of Essence  
	Any object that exists in the world has certain properties. These properties determine the object, and its qualitative and quantitative attributes. The culmination of these properties which determine an object is called the essence of the object. Therefore, every object has an essence, and is determined by its essence. An object can be constructed from any given essence. The same can be said conversely. An object can only have one essence, and given an object, only one essence can be drawn from the object, namely the essence of the object. For example, the properties "red", "has 4 wheels", "has windows", "has an engine", "moves", etc can be culminated into what can be called the essence of a red car. The essence of a red car is what determines a red car; an object is not a red car if its essence is not the essence of a red car. Likewise, the essence of an object is not the essence of a red car if the object is not a red car.
	An essence has a structure, or fabric, which defines it therein. It is simply the fact that certain properties exist and only those certain properties exist which give an essence its structure or fabric.
	Essence is internal, in other words it is inherent to the object. There is no essence of an object that is external to the object. This follows from an essence determining an object and an object determining its essence. Changes to an object result in changes to its essence, and vise versa. Changes to an essence of an object changes its object. These changes must happen internally, because in either case the essence is changed, and the essence is internal. 
	The properties of an object are qualitative and quantitative attributes of it. Properties are internal and inherent to an object because their culmination, essence, is internal and inherent to an object. It then follows that any change to an object's qualitative or quantitative attributes must happen internally and not externally. In other words, it is internal changes which drive changes in an object's appearance (The appearance of an object is just a combination of qualitative and quantitative attributes of an object). 
	However, the appearance of an object can be changed by external actions. For example, cytosol can be colored through use of Lugol's iodine indicator solution. The coloration is a change of property, yet the iodine solution is an external factor. The solution is that iodine only stains objects with specific attributes that allow them to be stained. Plastic does not get colored when exposed to Lugol's iodine indicator solution. In other words, it is properties that determine whether external factors can change properties. Therefore internal factors are what allows external factors to affect properties. Since without these specific internal factors, the external factors are meaningless, internal factors are what determines what can change an object's essence. So a revision of the original statement is that instead of "any change to an object's qualitative or quantitative attributes must happen internally and not externally" we have "any change to an object's qualitative or quantitative attributes are solely determined by internal factors and only by internal factors."The Manner of Changes of Properties

Transition  
	An essence is composed of many properties that can be changed in ways dictated internally. Since these properties can change, they can be called mutable. An essence is the culmination of properties, and is therefore mutable also. An essence is mutable is the sense that its parts are mutable. However, since an essence is internal, the essence dictates its own mutability. This self-determining is an interesting concept because it is the properties themselves which describe how they are changed. 
	A red car, when painted green, will become a green car. The qualitative attribute "red" is a color, and it must follow that when changing this attribute's value to another value, this other value is also a color. This describes what is called a transition. A transition is the active practice of a property mutating, in other words a property (with a value called the antecedent of transition) obtaining a new value (called the product of transition). The property determines what the product of transition can be through the concept of type. A type is a category of values. For example, the type Color is a category of all the colors, i.e. "red", "yellow", "magenta", etc. 
	This determining of the product of transition through the antecedent of transition is called the law of transition, and it is a manner in which properties mutate. The law states that if we have a property P, and it is of type T, and P can transition to P', P' must be of type T.

Class  
	Since essence implies objects, the mutability of essence implies mutability of objects; in other words transition changes the very essence of an object. By virtue of this observation, transition changes an object from one to another.
	However, simply changing one property of the essence of an object will almost always retain class. Class is an object’s categorical similarity to other objects. A class Car describes a relationship between specific objects. A red car and a green car only differ in the value of one property, so if a red car is a Car, a green car is also a Car. This sense of class shows that it is subjective, but is limited by: enough changes in different properties will alter the essence in such a way that its categorical similarity to a certain class of objects becomes less or more than its categorical similarity to another class of objects. This is known as the law of the tendency of essence alteration to cause class alteration.
	For example, by making a red car green, and having 2 wheels it is no longer part of class Car, but of a different class we can call Carriage. Its categorical similarity to Carriage superseded its categorical similarity to Car.
	There are some ways in which an object can change its class “instantly”. This is by inserting or deletion properties; in other words changing the structure or fabric of the essence. A change to the very fabric of an essence is to change the very things that define the category that the object of the essence is in. Since the category it once was a part of no longer matches the object’s essence, the object obtains similarity to a new category: it changes class.

Processes

The Three-fold Components of Processes  
	A process is a vital component in a comprehensive understanding of object and essence in the material world. Such processes are the means by which interactions and alterations occur between material objects, and more specifically in their abstract internal essence. As it will be clear later, processes related to essence of objects and specially related to the concept of transition are a special species or kind of process which allows more applicable use in analysis. Hitherto we have been very incoherent and mysterious about the true nature of processes. In truth, a process has a three-fold doctrine. The three key components of a process give processes much value in their analytical contribution. 
	The first key component of a process is action. Action is the very labor, energy, force exerted. Action distinguishes and differentiates processes; it gives processes their concreteness. The action's essence has its very nature in the idea of force exertion. No process can occur without action, it is not a process if there is no action; action is a fundamental foundation for process. 
	By virtue of action we can conclude that, unlike objects which require an entire essence to give them material realization, processes can be determined simply by the fact that they have action contained in them. This one-action principle explains how action is a very powerful component of process, as well as very powerful as it stands. A process doesn't not imply only an action; an action implies only a process. 
	Action, however, does not describe the entire three-fold components of processes. Merely, it is (1) an identifier of what is a process and (2) a fundamental part of processes. The second component of a process is the task. Every process seeks to achieve a goal through means of action. In this way, the task describes an objective - more specifically describes the essence of an objective - to achieve. 
	When task and action interact, result is formed. Result is the synthesis of action applied to task; force exerted to achieve a goal. The force exerted; the action of the process is described through its properties. Action varies per process. For example, A push of 20N is different than a push of 10N. Due to the variation of action and the constancy of task, the result also varies by virtue of it being a synthesis of action and task. We can determine the success therefore of a process by the degree to which the result matches or satisfies the intention of the task. 
	Success is composed of two sides: abstract and practical. Abstract success is a
process's theoretical ability to fulfill its task. Practical success is the process's actual ability to fulfill its task, as drawn from empirical observation. 
	If a process's task is one which aims to alter the essence of any object it will be called a transitional process, and its success is determined as follows:
(1) Abstract success, determined by the process's theoretical ability to perform a transition on the object. 
(2) Practical success, determined by the process's ability to perform a transition on the object, as drawn from empirical observation.
